# Homework for 9/19/19
### How Squares are NOT related to Rectangles... According to Liskov

 

Today in class we covered the 5 objected oriented principles that programming should follow to ensure efficient and easy to manage code. 

The 5 principles get a handy acronym that makes them all easy to remember (unfortunately not easier to understand), known as SOLID. 

### S.O.L.I.D stands for:
* Single Responsibility Principle (SRP)
* Open/ Close Principle (OCP)
* Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP)
* Interface Segregation (ISP)
* Dependency Inversion Principle

Although all 5 principles were covered in class today, the one that stirred the most discussion was the Liskov Substitution Principle. 

The Liskov Substitution Principle revolves around object oriented inheritance (or parent class and child class). It states that a program should be able to replace ANY instance of a parent class with an instance of its child class, without any negative side effects. 

This requires us to examine the differences between Objects and Classes, with the classic example of inheritance between a Rectangle and a Square.

## Is every Square also a Rectangle?
If we used the relationship between a square and a rectangle as an example of object oriented inheritance, we'd be wrong because, while the two shapes share many qualities, they have two differences that make them very unlike each other, at least in the world of programming. 

| Square                                            | Rectangle                                                              |
|---------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Quadrilateral                                     | Quadrilateral                                                          |
| All Angles 90 Degrees                             | All Angles 90 Degrees                                                  |
| Opposite sides are Parallel                       | Opposite sides are Parallel                                            |
| Diagonals are equal                               | Diagonals are equal                                                    |
| Diagonals bisect each other                       | Diagonals bisect each other                                            |
| *All sides are of equal length                    | *Only opposite sides are of equal length                               |
| *Diagonals of square are perpendicular  bisectors | *Diagonals of rectangles are not perpendicular  bisector of each other |

###### * differences

In rectangles, the value of Height and Width are independent of each other, while in a square, height and width cannot be different. Because of this difference, a square cannot be considered a "child" or rectangle.
